---
layout: default
title: about
permalink: /about
---
# About the ZENCODE-ITN programme
### A Marie Curie initial training programme funded by the European Union under the H020 programme.
## The programme
The ZENCODE Initial Training Network aims to improve career perspectives of early-stage researchers (ESR) in both public and private sectors, thereby making research careers more attractive to young people.

The scientific focus of the ZENCODE-ITN consortium is to understand genome regulation through combined experimental and computational approaches in a model vertebrate. The consortium recognises the urgent need for highly skilled young scientists trained in both computational biology and experimental wet lab biology. This network provides multi-disciplinary skills for a solid foundation in computational biology and developmental genomics.

We aim to comprehensively annotate functional epigenetic and transcribed elements, decipher genomic codes of transcription, as well as coding and non-coding gene function during vertebrate development and enhance zebrafish as an attractive developmental, comparative genomic and disease model. The participants include major zebrafish genomics laboratories, eminent computational biologists and world-class genomics technology experts.

The training program is designed for 15 ESRs, with more than 40 intersectoral and interdisciplinary secondments available, 7 training courses and 2 workshops/conferences. Through a trans-national network of public and private partners we aim to enhance the employability of the recruited ESRs through exposure to both academia and enterprise, thus extending the traditional academic research training setting and eliminating cultural and other barriers to mobility.

## The ZENCODE-ITN training objectives
We aim to develop a cohort of Europe’s best young researchers to be, first and foremost, purposeful thinkers who aspire to solve a major scientific problem who will then translate this new understanding into solutions to medical needs. There are two central aims. First, is to ensure that finished ESRs are highly skilled scientists: proficient in a variety of technologies and able to cross scientific disciplines. Second, is to ensure that ESRs acquire entrepreneurial aspirations coupled to the skills required to work across academia and industry and forge valuable links.
